# SAT_Solver
Implemented a SAT Solver using C++ as a part of course project(CS202, Prof. Shubajit Roy)

## Instructions to run

1. Make sure `g++` is installed on your system.
2. Move to the directory in termina in which `main.cpp` is located
3. Run the following commands in order
   ```
   g++ main.cpp -o sat
   ```
   ```
   ./sat filePath
   ```
   where `filePath` (without inverted commas) is relative path to the input cnf file.
<br><br>

## Code Details

Directory contains the following source code files:

1. `main.cpp`: contains the driver code.

2. `Solver.hpp` : header file containing the _**Solver**_ class

3. `Formula.hpp` : header file containing the _**Formula**_ class

4. `Utils.hpp` : header file containing the _STLs_ and function for calculation of runtime. 

<br>

## Other Files and Notations

Directory contains following files apart from the source code:

1. `Documentation.pdf` : A brief report describing our implementation, assumptions, and limitations.

2. `README.md` : This file, containing instructions to run the code and directory structure.

3. `input.txt`: contains a cnf file, in case of no input provided in arguments, it will be taken by default.

4. `tests/` : A folder containing 5 sample test cases. Inputs in the cnf specified form are in `test_x.txt` and curresponding solutions are in `sol_test_x.txt` where _x_ is test number.

5. Solution generated by The program will be shown on terminal along with the time taken by program. If SAT, the generated model will also be displayed. The positive number represents that the literal is assigned `True` value and the negative number represents otherwise.
