## Instructions to Run (Linux & Mac Systems)

1. pip3 install python-sat[pblib,aiger]
2. python3 part_1_sudoku_pair_solver.py `-input="filePath"` `-k=K`
> Here _filePath_ is the path to input CSV file, _K_ is the dimension of input sudoku
3. python3 part_2_sudoku_pair_generator.py `-k=K` `-o=outputs`
> Here _K_ is the dimension of required sudoku pair, _outputs_ is the number of sudoku pairs to be generated.

<br >

## Instructions to Run (Windows Systems)

1. pip install python-sat[pblib,aiger]
2. python part_1_sudoku_pair_solver.py `-input="filePath"` `-k=K`
> Here _filePath_ is the path to input CSV file, _K_ is the dimension of input sudoku
3. python part_2_sudoku_pair_generator.py `-k=K` `-o=outputs`
> Here _K_ is the dimension of required sudoku pair, _outputs_ is the number of sudoku pairs to be generated.

NOTE: Make sure `random`, `csv`, `time`, `argparse`, `math` libraries of python are installed.

NOTE: Make sure you are working in the same directory as of the source code to avoid errors.

<br>

## Code Details

Directory contains the following files:

1. part_1_sudoku_pair_solver.py: Solution to part 1 of the assignment.

2. part_2_sudoku_pair_generator.py : Solution to part 2 of the assignment.

3. clauses.py : Contains a function **all_clauses** that returns a list of clauses corresponding to a given **_k_** to be added to the SAT solver for solving a sudoku pair correctly.

4. functions.py: \
    Content: \
        &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; 1. no_of_solution : Function for checking the number of solution of given sudoku. \
        &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; 2. already_filled_values : Function returning a list of hashes of pre-determined value. \
        &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; 3. print_solved_sudoku_pair : Function for solving and printing sudoku pair. \
        &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; 4. generate_filled_random_sudoku_pair : Function to generate fully filled random sudoku.

<br>

## Other Files and Notations

Directory contains following files apart from the source code:

1. Documentation.pdf : A brief report describing our implementation, assumptions, and limitations.

2. README.md : This file, containing instructions to run the code and directory structure.

3. sudoku.csv : An example of test case which will be solved by default when no argument given while running code of part-1.

4. tests/ : A folder containing 5 sample test cases. Empty sudokus are in `test_x.csv` and curresponding solved sudokus are in `sol_test_x.csv` where _x_ is test number.

5. sudoku pairs generated by **part_2_sudoku_pair_generator.py** will be stored in format "sudoku"+sudoku_pair_number+".csv". i.e. _sudoku1.csv_, _sudoku2.csv_ etc.

6. sudoku pairs solved by **part_1_sudoku_pair_solver.py** will be stored in format "solver_sudoku.csv" and also printed on terminal.
